+++
archetype = "page"
title = "9. Process States"
date = "2023-03-19T19:24:54+05:30"
weight = 9
# Below is styling for Quizdown
primary_color = "green"
secondary_color = "lightgray"
text_color = "Black"
shuffle_questions = "true"
+++

## Lesson Content

Let's take a look at the ps aux command again:

```bash
$ ps aux
```

In the STAT column, you'll see lots of values. A linux process can be in a number of different states. The most common state codes you'll see are described below:

- R: running or runnable, it is just waiting for the CPU to process it
- S: Interruptible sleep, waiting for an event to complete, such as input from the terminal
- D: Uninterruptible sleep, processes that cannot be killed or interrupted with a signal, usually to make them go away you have to reboot or fix the issue
- Z: Zombie, we discussed in a previous lesson that zombies are terminated processes that are waiting to have their statuses collected
- T: Stopped, a process that has been suspended/stopped

## Exercise

Take a look at the running processes on your system and check out their process states.

## Quiz Question

{{< quizdown >}}

# What STAT code is used to represent an uninterruptible sleep? 

> Processes in a "D" or uninterruptible sleep state are usually waiting on I/O. The ps command shows a "D" on processes in an uninterruptible sleep state. The vmstat command also shows the current processes that are "blocked" or waiting on I/O. The vmstat and ps will not agree on the number of processes in a "D" state, so don't be too concerned. You cannot kill "D" state processes, even with SIGKILL or kill -9. As the name implies, they are uninterruptible. You can only clear them by rebooting the server or waiting for the I/O to respond. It is normal to see processes in a "D" state when the server performs I/O intensive operations.

1. [ ] Z
2. [ ] S
3. [ ] R
4. [x] D