+++
archetype = "page"
title = "1. Network Basics"
date = "2023-05-11T18:17:31+05:30"
weight = 1
+++

## Lesson Content

Let's look at a typical home network, you have a few different components. 

* ISP - Your internet service provider, the company you pay to get Internet at your house.
* Router - The router allows each machine on your network to connect to the Internet. In most modern routers, you can connect via wireless or an Ethernet cable.
* WAN - Wide Area Network, this is what we call the network that encompasses everything between your router and a wider network such the Internet.
* WLAN - Wireless Local Area Network, this is the network between your router and any wireless devices you may have such as laptops.
* LAN - Local Area Network, this is the network between your router and any wired devices such as Desktop PCs.
* Hosts - Each machine on a network is known as a host.



The data and information that gets transmitted through networks are known as packets and by the end of the Networking Nomad section, you'll understand in detail how a packet travels to and from hosts.

## Exercise

No exercises for this lesson.

## Quiz Question

{{< quizdown >}}

# What is the local area network known as?

> - A local area network (LAN) consists of a series of computers linked together to form a network in a circumscribed location. The computers in a LAN connect to each other via TCP/IP ethernet or Wi-Fi.

> - LANs are used mainly for resource sharing. Expensive hardware like laser printers and CD/ROM drives can be shared by several users when they are attached to a network. Further, purchasing a network version of software cuts the costs of purchasing them for each and every computer.

1. [ ] WAN
2. [ ] PAN
3. [ ] MAN
4. [x] LAN

{{< /quizdown >}}
