+++
archetype = "page"
title = "4. sysfs"
date = "2023-03-31T21:06:28+05:30"
weight = 4
+++

## Lesson Content

Sysfs was created long ago to better manage devices on our system that the /dev directory failed to do. Sysfs is a virtual filesystem, most often mounted to the /sys directory. It gives us more detailed information than what we would be able to see in the /dev directory. Both directories /sys and /dev seem to be very similar and they are in some regards, but they do have major differences. Basically, the /dev directory is simple, it allows other programs to access devices themselves, while the /sys filesystem is used to view information and manage the device. 

The /sys filesystem basically contains all the information for all devices on your system, such as the manufacturer and model, where the device is plugged in, the state of the device, the hierarchy of devices and more. The files you see here aren't device nodes, so you don't really interact with devices from the /sys directory, rather you are managing devices. 

Take a look at the contents of the /sys directory:

```bash
pete@icebox:~$ ls /sys/block/sda
alignment_offset  discard_alignment  holders   removable  sda6       trace
bdi               events             inflight  ro         size       uevent
capability        events_async       power     sda1       slaves
dev               events_poll_msecs  queue     sda2       stat
device            ext_range          range     sda5       subsystem
```


## Exercise

Check out the contents of the /sys directory and see what files are located in there.

## Quiz Question

{{< quizdown >}}

# What directory is used to view detailed information on devices? 

> Sysfs is used by several utilities to access information about hardware and its driver (kernel modules) such as udev or HAL. Scripts have been written to access information previously obtained via procfs, and some scripts configure device drivers and devices via their attributes.

1. [ ] /root
2. [ ] /proc
3. [ ] /dev
4. [x] /sys