+++
archetype = "page"
title = "11. Join and Split"
date = "2023-02-25T09:56:53Z"
weight = 11
# Below is styling for Quizdown
primary_color = "green"
secondary_color = "lightgray"
text_color = "Black"
shuffle_questions = "true"
+++

## Lesson Content

The join command allows you to join multiple files together by a common field: 

Let's say I had two files that I wanted to join together:
```bash
file1.txt
1 John
2 Jane
3 Mary

file2.txt
1 Doe
2 Doe
3 Sue

$ join file1.txt file2.txt
1 John Doe
2 Jane Doe
3 Mary Sue
```

See how it joined together my files? They are joined together by the first field by default and the fields have to be identical, if they are not you can sort them, so in this case the files are joined via 1, 2, 3. 

How would we join the following files? 

```bash
file1.txt
John 1
Jane 2
Mary 3

file2.txt
1 Doe
2 Doe
3 Sue
```

To join this file you need to specify which fields you are joining, in this case we want field 2 on file1.txt and field 1 on file2.txt, so the command would look like this:

```bash
$ join -1 2 -2 1 file1.txt file2.txt
1 John Doe
2 Jane Doe
3 Mary Sue
```

-1 refers to file1.txt and -2 refers to file2.txt. Pretty neat. You can also split a file up into different files with the split command: 

```bash
$ split somefile
```

This will split it into different files, by default it will split them once they reach a 1000 line limit. The files are named x** by default.

## Exercise

Join two files with different number of lines in each file, what happens?

## Quiz Question

{{< quizdown >}}

# What command would you use to join files named cat dog cow?

> - The join command reads the files specified by the File1 and File2 parameters, joins lines in the files according to the flags, and writes the results to standard output. The File1 and File2 parameters must be text files.

> - Split command in Linux is used to split large files into smaller files. It splits the files into 1000 lines per file(by default) and even allows users to change the number of lines as per requirement.

1. [ ] join cat cow dog
2. [ ] join cow dog cat
3. [ ] join dog cat cow
4. [x] join cat dog cow
  