+++
archetype = "page"
title = "3. stderr (Standard Error)"
date = "2023-02-20T11:44:50Z"
weight = 3
+++

## Lesson Content

Let's try something a little different now, let's try to list the contents of a directory that doesn't exist on your system and redirect the output to the peanuts.txt file again.

```bash
$ ls /fake/directory > peanuts.txt 
```

What you should see is: 

```bash
ls: cannot access /fake/directory: No such file or directory
```

Now you're probably thinking, shouldn't that message have been sent to the file? There is actually another I/O stream in play here called standard error (stderr). By default, stderr sends its output to the screen as well, it's a completely different stream than stdout. So you'll need to redirect its output a different way. 

Unfortunately the redirector is not as nice as using <b>&lt;</b> or <b>&gt;</b> but it's pretty close. We will have to use file descriptors. A file descriptor is a non-negative number that is used to access a file or stream. We will go in depth about this later, but for now know that the file descriptor for stdin, stdout and stderr is 0, 1, and 2 respectively. 

So now if we want to redirect our stderr to the file we can do this: 

```bash
$ ls /fake/directory 2> peanuts.txt
```

You should see just the stderr messages in peanuts.txt. 

Now what if I wanted to see both stderr and stdout in the peanuts.txt file? It's possible to do this with file descriptors as well: 

```bash
$ ls /fake/directory > peanuts.txt 2>&1
```

This sends the results of ls /fake/directory to the peanuts.txt file and then it redirects stderr to the stdout via 2>&1. The order of operations here matters, 2>&1 sends stderr to whatever stdout is pointing to. In this case stdout is pointing to a file, so 2>&1 also sends stderr to a file. So if you open up that peanuts.txt file you should see both stderr and stdout. In our case, the above command only outputs stderr.

There is a shorter way to redirect both stdout and stderr to a file:

```bash
$ ls /fake/directory &> peanuts.txt
```

Now what if I don't want any of that cruft and want to get rid of stderr messages completely? Well you can also redirect output to a special file call /dev/null and it will discard any input.

```bash
$ ls /fake/directory 2> /dev/null
```

## Exercise

What is the following command doing? 

```bash
$ ls /fake/directory >> /dev/null 2>&1
```

## Quiz Question

{{< quizdown >}}

# What is the redirector for stderr?

> It would be more correct to say that ```stdin, stdout, and stderr``` are "I/O streams" rather than files. As you've noticed, these entities do not live in the filesystem. But the Unix philosophy, as far as I/O is concerned, is "everything is a file". In practice, that really means that you can use the same library functions and interfaces (printf, scanf, read, write, select, etc.) without worrying about whether the I/O stream is connected to a keyboard, a disk file, a socket, a pipe, or some other I/O abstraction.

1. [ ]  \>\~
2. [ ] \>2
3. [ ] 1\>
4. [x] 2>

