+++
archetype = "page"
title = "4. Pipe and Tee"
date = "2023-02-20T11:45:24Z"
weight = 4
# Below is styling for Quizdown
primary_color = "green"
secondary_color = "lightgray"
text_color = "Black"
shuffle_questions = "true"
+++

## Lesson Content

Let's get into some plumbing now, not really but kinda. Let's try a command: 

```bash
$ ls -la /etc
```

You should see a very long list of items, it's a little hard to read actually. Instead of redirecting this output to a file, wouldn't it be nice if we could just see the output in another command like less? Well we can!

```bash
$ ls -la /etc | less 
```

The pipe operator ```|```, represented by a vertical bar, allows us to get the stdout of a command and make that the stdin to another process. In this case, we took the stdout of ```ls -la /etc``` and then <i>piped</i> it to the less command. The pipe command is extremely useful and we will continue to use it for all eternity. 

Well what if I wanted to write the output of my command to two different streams? That's possible with the tee command: 

```bash
$ ls | tee peanuts.txt
```

You should see the output of ls on your screen and if you open up the peanuts.txt file you should see the same information!

## Exercise

Try the following commands: 

```bash
$ ls | tee peanuts.txt banan.txt
```

## Quiz Question

{{< quizdown >}}

# What key represents the pipe operator?

> Pipes help you mash-up two or more commands at the same time and run them consecutively. You can use powerful commands which can perform complex tasks in a jiffy.

1. [ ]  \<\^
2. [ ] \>
3. [ ] \<
4. [x] |

