+++
archetype = "page"
title = "11. mv (Move)"
date = "2023-02-13T21:48:17+05:30"
weight = 11
+++

## Lesson Content

Used for moving files and also renaming them. Quite similar to the cp command in terms of flags and functionality. 

You can rename files like this:

```bash 
$ mv oldfile newfile
```

Or you can actually move a file to a different directory: 

```bash
$ mv file2 /home/pete/Documents
```

And move more than one file:

```bash
$ mv file_1 file_2 /somedirectory
```

You can rename directories as well:

```bash
$ mv directory1 directory2
```

Like cp, if you mv a file or directory it will overwrite anything in the same directory. So you can use the -i flag to prompt you before overwriting anything.

```bash
mv -i directory1 directory2
```

Let’s say you did want to mv a file to overwrite the previous one. You can also make a backup of that file and it will just rename the old version with a ~. 

```bash
$ mv -b directory1 directory2
```

## Exercise

Rename a file, then move that file to a different directory.

## Quiz Question

{{< quizdown >}}

# How do you rename a file called cat to dog?

> mv command stands for move. This command supports moving or renaming files / group of files / directories. It renames SOURCE to DEST, or moves SOURCE(s) to DIRECTORY. If both filenames are in the same directory, this simply does the file rename; otherwise the file content is copied to the new location and the old file is removed. By default, mv command overwrites files without warning. If the destination file already exists, its data will vanish.

1. [ ] duplicate cat dog
2. [ ] copy cat dog
3. [ ] cp cat dog
4. [x] mv cat dog

{{< /quizdown >}}
