+++
archetype = "page"
title = "5. I/O Monitoring"
date = "2023-04-29T17:01:25+05:30"
weight = 5
+++

## Lesson Content

We can also monitor CPU usage as well as monitor disk usage with a handy tool known as **iostat**

```bash
pete@icebox:~$ iostat
Linux 3.13.0-39-lowlatency (icebox)     01/28/2016      _i686_  (1 CPU)

avg-cpu:  %user   %nice %system %iowait  %steal   %idle
           0.13    0.03    0.50    0.01    0.00   99.33

Device:            tps    kB_read/s    kB_wrtn/s    kB_read    kB_wrtn
sda               0.17         3.49         1.92     385106     212417

```


The first part is the CPU information:

* %user - Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the user level (application)
* %nice - Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the user level with nice priority.user CPU utilization with nice priorities
* %system - Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the system level (kernel).
* %iowait - Show the percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle during which the system had an outstanding disk I/O request.
* %steal - Show the percentage of time spent in involuntary wait by the virtual CPU or CPUs while the hypervisor was servicing another virtual processor.
* %idle - Show the percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle and the system did not have an outstanding disk I/O request.



The second part is the disk utilization:

* tps - Indicate the number of transfers per second that were issued to the device. A transfer is an I/O request to the device. Multiple logical requests can be combined into a single I/O request to the device. A transfer is of indeterminate size.
* kB_read/s - Indicate the amount of data read from the device expressed in kilobytes per second.
* kB_wrtn/s - Indicate the amount of data written to the device expressed in kilobytes per second.
* kB_read - The total number of kilobytes read.
* kB_wrtn - The total number of kilobytes written.


## Exercise

Use iostat to view your disk usage.

## Quiz Question

{{< quizdown >}}

# What command can be used to view I/O and CPU usage?

> The iostat command is used to monitor system input/output (I/O) devices (physical and logical) that are loaded, by observing the time for which these devices are active.

1. [ ] sysV
2. [ ] init
3. [ ] unstart
4. [x] iostat