+++
archetype = "page"
title = "2. root"
date = "2023-03-08T13:41:27+05:30"
weight = 2
# Below is styling for Quizdown
primary_color = "green"
secondary_color = "lightgray"
text_color = "Black"
shuffle_questions = "true"
+++

## Lesson Content

We've looked at one way to get superuser access using the sudo command. You can also run commands as the superuser with the su command. This command will "substitute users" and open a root shell if no username is specified. You can use this command to substitute to any user as long as you know the password. 

```bash
$ su
```

There are some downsides to using this method: it's much easier to make a critical mistake running everything in root, you won't have records of the commands you use to change system configurations, etc. Basically, if you need to run commands as the superuser, just stick to sudo.

Now that you know what commands to run as the superuser, the question is how do you know who has access to do that? The system doesn't let every single Joe Schmoe run commands as the superuser, so how does it know? There is a file called the /etc/sudoers file, this file lists users who can run sudo. You can edit this file with the **visudo** command.

## Exercise

Open up the ```/etc/sudoers``` file and see what superuser permissions other users on the machine have.

## Quiz Question

{{< quizdown >}}

# What file shows the users who have access to sudo?

> The sudoers file is a file Linux and Unix administrators use to allocate system rights to system users. This allows the administrator to control who does what. Remember, Linux is built with security in mind. When you want to run a command that requires root rights, Linux checks your username against the sudoers file. This happens when you type the command “sudo”. If it determines, that your username is not on the list, you cannot run the command/program logged in as that user.

1. [ ] ls sudoers
2. [ ] show sudoers
3. [ ] /etc/root
4. [x] /etc/sudoers