+++
archetype = "page"
title = "6. Systemd Goals"
date = "2023-04-23T08:19:23+05:30"
weight = 6
+++

## Lesson Content

We won't get into the details of writing systemd unit files. We will however go over a brief overview of a unit file and how to manually control units. 

Here is a basic service unit file: foobar.service


```
[Unit]
Description=My Foobar
Before=bar.target

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/bin/foobar

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```


This is a simple service target, at the beginning of the file we see a section for [Unit], this allows us to give our unit file a description as well as control the ordering of when to activate the unit. The next portion is the [Service] section, under here we can start, stop or reload a service. And the [Install] section is used for dependency. This is only the tip of the iceberg for writing systemd files, so I implore you to read up on the subject if you want to know more. 

Now, let's get into some commands you can use with systemd units: 

**List units**

```bash
$ systemctl list-units
```

**View status of unit**

```bash
$ systemctl status networking.service
```

**Start a service**

```bash
$ sudo systemctl start networking.service
```

**Stop a service**

```bash
$ sudo systemctl stop networking.service
```

**Restart a service**

```bash
$ sudo systemctl restart networking.service
```

**Enable a unit**

```bash
$ sudo systemctl enable networking.service
```

**Disable a unit**

```bash
$ sudo systemctl disable networking.service
```


Again, you have yet to see how much depth systemd gets into, so read up on it if you want to learn more.

## Exercise

View the unit statuses and start and stop a few services. What do you observe?

## Quiz Question

{{< quizdown >}}

# What is the command to start a service named peanut.service?

> To start a service using the systemctl command, we utilise the start option. This option is followed by the name of the service which we wish to start.

1. [ ] sudo systemctl module peanut.service 
2. [ ] sudo systemctl upstart peanut.service
3. [x] sudo systemctl start peanut.service
